There are some other new methods that are available that make our lives easier.
Find and find index.
These are very useful for looking for items in an array that meet a particular criteria.
And once we do meet this criteria we'll go ahead and either return the value inside of the array that
meets the criteria or the index of the value inside of the array.
So what we do is we'll make a contest and we'll do numbers.
And it's just going to be an array of numbers will.
Twenty three forty five sixty seven eighty nine like so then we can call the find method on this array.
And this can take two arguments the first argument is a callback that's going to be invoked for every
item in the array.
And the second argument which is optional is an argument for this.
So in other words you can define what you want.
The keyword this to equal for the callback function that you pass in.
Now I'm going to do this with the traditional function first and then I'll show you another way to do
it with the arrow function.
Now the three different arguments that this function is going to get passed in is the same three arguments
that would get passed in four of four each.
Or a map function.
So it would be first the value where we are in the loop.
And then after that it's going to be the index where we are and the array itself.
So I can illustrate that to you with let's say Number Singular and then we'll do let's say the soldiers
do.
And then we'll just do array like so and do inside of here just cancel the log.
Each of these number.
And then array like so you see we go through this entire thing right here.
And this of course is the array itself the index we're at and the actual value.
Now one of the big differences here is what we need to include inside of here is a return statement
the return statement is going to be where we defined our criteria.
And as soon as we return true we're going to stop going through the array and basically return either
the value or the index for what return true so I'll define my criteria right here.
Now we're going to do number is greater than 70.
Like so now then we go through this and you're going to see nothing happens because we didn't really
cancel that log our result.
So it's going to return the result and then we can cancel it out logons console log result.
Like so.
And you can see it actually prints out 89.
So what it does here is it goes through this array and then it compares whatever value we're at in the
array to our condition right here in a gets all the way to 89 whenever it gets to 89.
Number 89 is greater than 70.
So it returns True as soon as the find method returns true.
It takes the value that met our criteria and returns true.
So this is really good for checking for values inside of an array that meet a certain criteria instead
of just looking for a specific value.
Now a find index is going to do pretty much the same thing except instead of returning the value that
met our criteria.
It's going to return where it is in the array.
So in this case it will return 3 because the value that met our criteria is at index 3.